So the next MVP we're going to cover is the
concierge service MVP. Concierge is, for those of you
that didn't grow up in a mansion,
it's a service where you get one-on-one support from
someone who manually walks you through some task.
It's like a concierge desk at a fancy hotel.
If you call the concierge, you can ask them to do pretty much anything, and they'll try to personally help you do it.
So, in this MVP, instead of making the feature or product,
what you can do is launch an informal offering
to a small subset of users or potential users.
Tell them it's a beta program, or just tell them it's a
new thing that you're planning out and just starting to do,
then you can manually help them accomplish
the task your proposed feature or product would do.
The idea here is that if you are manually there to help them accomplish their task, you can see firsthand
whether or not what you are doing is helpful and necessary.
Let's give an example. Let's say Amazon wanted to build a bot,
and that bot could take written requests
and then go and fetch things it thought the customer might want. Sounds like a really expensive thing to build, right?
Well, what you can do instead of building that complex algorithm is just find some power users and say, "Hey,
we're launching a new service.
Tell us what you're looking for and we'll come back with personalized recommendations." And then, through
e-mail, just help them fetch the items. See if they like it
and see if they continue to ask for more things,
and also, see exactly what they plan to use the service for.
That then tells you who to focus on and
what areas to prioritize when you launch.
A great example of a concierge MVP in action was a company
called Rent the Runway, it started up a long time ago,
very successful now. They rent out really fancy dresses to women who want really fancy dresses but don't want to buy them for ever,
they just want to wear them
once. They launched with an in-person concierge service on college campuses, where they physically helped
women pick dresses, get them, stock them,
organize them, return them, and then charge them.
It was a hit, it was easy to figure out what people wanted,
they built the product around their feedback, and the rest is history.
The next MVP we're going to talk about is the piecemeal MVP.
A piecemeal MVP is where instead of building
out your product, you take what's available in the form of
out of the box softwares, and by piecing those
softwares together, you can match the functionality you need
to test the basic version of what you're trying to build.
Now, there are tons and tons of platforms
out there and that's why this works.
You can use a Weebly, or a Wix, or a SquareSpace
to create a page that can take orders, send emails
send text messages, really do a lot.
You can seek software like Formstack, or Typeform, or JotForm
to create forms that can do advanced calculations
and have advanced features.
Want to send text messages and have
entire systems built off that? You can use Twilio.
You can use Recurly to manage subscriptions.
There are just tons and tons of services out there for
almost anything you can think of doing. Now with
some creativity, you can take these things
and stick them together into a Frankenstein
that gets the job done until you can then
justify using real resources.
Groupon is a great example of a company that used this MVP. Groupon is that company that for so long just bombarded
your email inbox with flash deals on things from spa packages,
to skydiving, to that restaurant you
vaguely heard of. Well, they didn't want to build out
the complex system to take orders, manage their
clientele, the actual stores, and generate the coupons,
so they instead created their site on WordPress.
And this is back when they were called The Point.
The WordPress site then would email every time there
was an order, and then they would use Apple Mail and
a thing called Apple Script, so that when it received
an email, it could just run some basic logic on it and
generate a coupon that would then auto send back
to the person who needed it.
All right.
So we're at the last MVP tactic that we're going to cover.
This one's called The Wizard of Oz MVP.
.
The Wizard of Oz MVP is an MVP that from the front looks to be completely made, but all the tasks that computers
and automated systems would normally be doing is actually
carried out manually behind the scenes by an individual.
It's just a fact of engineering that when you build a web
or mobile product, the largest portion of your
effort is going to be dedicated towards making the server side logic
i.e. the parts of the website that make it work.
but no one ever physically sees.
So in this MVP, you take advantage of that.
You develop a front-end design that looks entirely functional,
but you just have someone ready on standby
to fulfill whatever the user thinks should be happening in the app.
So let's say you had a social network and you wanted
to start a feature that matched people based off
of their interests and their profile information.
Instead of building out the complex algorithm for
matching people and then seeing if people want to
use it after the fact, you could build up the button that
says "Match me," and then every time someone clicks
that, you manually had someone look at their profile
and match them to someone, email them the results.
Voila.
Now, why do we call it Wizard of Oz?
Well, if you watched The Wizard of Oz, I mean, it's a classic.
But remember when they get through the entire yellow brick road, only to find out the Great Wizard of Oz was
actually a man behind a curtain, pulling levers to make special effects, to create that giant emerald face that was so scary.
.
So this is the software version of that.
The classic example of this was Zappos - they created an
online shoe store, but they didn't stock any shoes, so
when people ordered through their online store,
they walked across the street and bought it from an
actual brick and mortar store, then mailed it. That
way, they didn't have to build any server side logic,
they didn't have to buy any inventory, and they could
pretty much say they offered whatever
the people down the street offered.
Alright guys, that's the whirlwind tour of all the MVPs
that you need to know about. The following lectures, we're
going to talk about each one in-depth.
You can skip some of them if you're not interested in a specific one.
Otherwise, I'll see you then.